# Computational complexity

> focuses on classifying computational problems according to their inherent difficulty and relating those classes to each other.




What is a blockChain:

1. p2p network
2. consensus algo
3. historical log (hash linked)
4. state (hash linked)


A relay network is a type of network used to send information between devices. (server -> computer).

A network bridge is a computer networking device that creates a single aggregate network from multiple communication networks or network segments.






The internet (distributed), built on the tcp/ip stack.

HTTP is inefficient and expensive. (centralized servers)




Emerging networks:

content on the web is deleted daily.

Internet BackBone Addiction.


censorship (centralized attack)

innovation (sharing - scale human communication)



ipfs: migration

use of cutting edge tech (merkle tree - hashing)

content address network (computer asking to the peers do you have this file)

Fingerprinting to prevent duplications (same file - same hash)

pinning / seeding : you are only sharing what you already agreed to.

Finding content: DHT 


To view content through IPFS: you can go to ipfs.io/hash...
> public gateway that uses the http protocol to transfer http content. 



IPNS: Human Readable Names


IPLD: Interplanetary Linked Data: data structure that you use to be able to link data together.

Json formats and from there you can link to different things based on hashes (General data structure)

The merkle forest: link a bunch of things through hashes.

Multiformats: future proofs values that are self-identifying 

ex: multihash

MultiADDR: MultiFormats


LibP2P: rooting, discovering, routing of data.
exp: openbazaar: based on ipfs (they need users to be anonymous - but the networking traffic needs to be anonymous)

they wrote a tor transport (onion network with libp2p and just injecting when doing their builds)

filecoin: crypto: you can rent storage space and earn filecoins then convert those into dollars.
